Add jellyroll GSOC project (#251)
pybamm-team/pybamm.org: content/gsoc/2025/_index.md

* [Robert Timms](https://github.com/rtimms)
* [Arjun Verma](https://arjxnpy.vercel.app/)
* [Ferran Brosa Planella](https://www.brosaplanella.xyz/) -->

## Adding a spirally wound geometry for thermal simulations in PyBaMM

> With the increasing demand for high-performance batteries, accurate thermal modeling of battery behavior is essential. A key challenge is the interaction between electrochemical and thermal dynamics in complicated battery geometries, which affects performance, safety, and lifespan. This project aims to develop a framework for the addition of coupled electrochemical-thermal simulations in PyBaMM in higher-dimensional geometries (e.g. cylindrical)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the increasing demand for high-performance batteries, accurate thermal modeling of battery behavior is essential. A key challenge is the interaction between electrochemical and thermal dynamics in complicated battery geometries, which affects performance, safety, and lifespan. This project aims to develop a framework for coupled electrochemical-thermal simulations in PyBaMM, focusing on higher-dimensional geometries (e.g., cylindrical).
```

This project aims to couple the electrochemical models already available in PyBaMM, such as the SPM or DFN, with a higher-dimensional thermal model.  As a proof of concept, the model will be used to simulate temperature distributions throughout the cell under different operating conditions.

> As a first step, a 3D thermal model will be implemented in PyBaMM with a constant heat source term. This will require adding new 3D meshes and spatial methods to PyBaMM (ideally by adding an existing 3D Finite Volume package as a dependency, such as Gmsh, Meshlib, Salome, etc). Next, this thermal model will be coupled with an electrochemical model, which will provide the heat source term. Finally, the coupling will be made two-way so that the lumped temperature from the 3D model feeds back into the electrochemical model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a first step, a 3D thermal model will be implemented in PyBaMM with a constant heat source term. This will require adding new 3D meshes and spatial methods to PyBaMM (ideally by adding an existing 3D Finite Volume package as a dependency, such as Gmsh, Meshlib, Salome, etc). Next, this thermal model will be coupled with an electrochemical model, which will provide the heat source term. Finally, the coupling will be made two-way so that the lumped temperature from the 3D model feeds back into the electrochemical model, dynamically influencing the electrochemical reactions.
```

> As a stretch goal, the project will explore the integration of 3D temperature profiles obtained from the spirally wound 3D thermal model back into the electrochemical model. This would enable feedback coupling, where the electrochemical model depends on the temperature distribution of the 3D model, providing a foundation for more complex coupling strategies in future research.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a stretch goal, the project will explore the integration of 3D temperature profiles obtained from the spirally wound 3D thermal model back into the electrochemical model. This would enable a feedback mechanism where the electrochemical model dynamically responds to the temperature distribution of the 3D model, setting the foundation for more advanced coupling strategies in future research.
```

Does this suggestion sounds correct @rtimms?

### Expected outcomes

> The expected outcome of this study is a proof-of-concept 3D thermal model implemented in PyBaMM, along with the necessary meshing and discretization capabilities. It includes a computational framework for electrochemical-thermal decoupling on new cell geometries, and the implementation of a spirally wound geometry for thermal simulations in PyBaMM.

Reviewer: > a computational framework for electrochemical-thermal decoupling on new cell geometries

Just making sure it's **decoupling** & not **coupling**

Author: thanks, should be coupling

> The expected outcome of this study is a proof-of-concept 3D thermal model implemented in PyBaMM, along with the necessary meshing and discretization capabilities. It includes a computational framework for electrochemical-thermal decoupling on new cell geometries, and the implementation of a spirally wound geometry for thermal simulations in PyBaMM.

Author: ```suggestion
The expected outcome of this study is a proof-of-concept 3D thermal model implemented in PyBaMM, along with the necessary meshing and discretization capabilities. It includes a computational framework for electrochemical-thermal coupling on new cell geometries, and the implementation of a spirally wound geometry for thermal simulations in PyBaMM.
```
